# Algorithm
## Goals
The goal of this horse race program is to simulate a horse racing event that allows users to input a random seed number and obtain different outcomes of the horse race using Object Oriented Design (OOD) and Object Oriented Programming (OOP). This program is written in C++, and it involves experimenting with UML, creating classes, reviewing access modifiers, building member variables, add accessing methods, and creating constructors & classes. Also, this program allows us to learn using a random number generator along with a seed number, utilizing algorithms to get the horse position, print the race track, as well as determining the winner of this race. At the end of the program, the horse that wins the race will be announced. **"Horse # wins!"**. 

First, two classes were declared, which are the Horse and Race classes. Each of these classes have their own attributes, constuctors and methods. For the Horse class, a private integer attribute was declared and named as position, which indicates the position of the horse. Next, a public constructor *Horse()* constructor was declared in the header file and initialized in the cpp file to assign a value of 0 for position. Also, the *advance()* method and *getPosition()* method were also declared and initialized at two seperate files, one to determine the movement of the horse by coin flip method, while the other one returns the position of the horse to the function where is has been called. 

For the Race class, two constructors were declared, one with no parameter and the other with one int parameter. In the two constructors, I assigned the value of length. In the *printLane()* method, I am printing each lane of horse in a formatted manner by using some algorithms. The *start()* method right after that is to allow the race to start and get their positions moving (either moving or remaining at the same position every round of the loop). The *main()* function here uses a random number generator to allow user to enter a seed integer, and that seed integer is used for the *srand()* function. The *start()* method is called here to initiate the horse race.

## Input
The Race and Horse classes do not require input from the user, because the only variables needed for these functions to execute successfully is the track length, and the initial position of the horses. All of these variables are either declared globally or declared within the program, with the *trackLength* and *DefNum* declared as constant integers in race.cpp, and *position* being declared in the constructor of the Horse class. Since these attributes and constants are defined and can be accessed anywhere within the file, we are not required to have users input values to these files and/or classes. For the *main()* function instead, we will need to take input from the user for our seed number in order to put it in the *srand()* function and get a random number generator working. This is to achieve an outcome that is different when the seed number inputted is arbitrary.

## Output
For the *main()* function, the program is printing out a sentence to provide an instruction to the user to input a seed number. Also, the program outputs the winner of the race after getting that information from the *race()* method from the Race class. The sentence announcing the winner of the horse is also printed out from the *start()* method. Also, the *printLane()* method outputs the tracks that has length 15, together with the horse position in a formatted manner. None of the other methods are outputting any values, but they are involved in making the horse race simulation program work, so they play an important role to keep the program running successfully.

## Steps 
Firstly, I created a UML diagram of my own to understand how the Horse and Race classes are used to simulate this horse race program. I then declared the Horse and Race classes in two separate header files, "horse.h" and "race.h", based on the UML diagram. Some global declarations were made to contribute to the program, like the **TrackLength** integer with value 15 and **DefNum** with value 5. Also, all necessary attributes and methods were declared in each header in either the private or public domain. Then, I started initializing the methods and attributes of the two classes in two different cpp files respectively. The attributes were defined in the constructors, while the methods were initialized just as regular functions. Besides, I also declared an array of Horse in the Race class to manage the 5 horse arrays needed for the race. 

Next, I created another cpp file (main.cpp) to write the codes for the *main()* function. In the *main()* function, I prompted the user to input a random seed number, and set the **seed** for the srand() function for getting arbitrary integer values. The integer values will then determine whether the horse advances or remains at its initial position. Then, I declared a variable with class Race, and called the *start()* method to start the horse race. The program will then proceed to the *start()* method.

Then, the program starts the race by using a *while loop* to keep the program running while none of the horses reach the end point and a *for loop* calling the *advance()* method for each horse to do a coin flip and determine if the horses move forward or remain at its initial position. Also in the *for loop*, I printed the lane of each horse together with their current position. In the *printLane()* method, I got the position of the horse by calling the *getPosition()* method. Then, I did a *for loop* for printing "." before the position of the horse, an *if loop* to print the horse number at its position, and another *for loop* to print the remaining "." after the position of the horse. In order to spot the winner among the horses, I did an *if loop* to check if any of the horses arrived at the end of the track. If their position indicates so, I will set that horse as the winner and prints out the winner horse as an output before returning to *main()* function. 

The program was then compiled and ran to check for any errors. After finalizing the codes, I did a git add ., git commit -m, and a git push -u origin master to upload the .c file to GitHub, located in a directory that I have created. 

